Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 

I'm not sure what the utils are for, but I think it will print Greetings! and then print What is my favorite color? Until I input something.

Now right click on the main1.py window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

What do you think the program did with what you typed?

I think the program terminated with the input, I'm not sure it did anything.

Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
It has an extra line at the end of the program, and keeps track of your input.

What do you think the color = input() will do? 
It should save whatever you input into the color variable.

Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Yes


Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
This one uses an if statement to give you a different response if you input "Red"

What is happening on lines 11–14? 
The program does different things depending on if you put "Red" in or not.

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
Because python wants them to be, because they are inside the if and else statements.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
It says "Sorry, try again."

What does this tell you about "color"?
It's case sensitive.


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main3.py. 
It also accepts "red" in the if statement.

What problem is this trying to solve? 
Helps someone get the if condition if they don't realize the computer doesn't recognize red as Red.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
It prints the else message.


Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 
I'm guessing color.lower will put the letters in the string to lowercase.

What problem is it trying to solve? 
It wants to allow the user to input any upper or lower case version of red.

Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?
It prints the else message.



Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
It adds .strip()

What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
It's probably removing the spaces in the string.

Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?
If you misspelled it it wouldn't work.


Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 

What is the purpose of line 11? 
It makes the changes from the last program before the if statement so it applies to red or pink potentially.

Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
It lets you try again until you guess correctly.

Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
They need to be because python considers them inside the while loop.

Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
The user couldn't get out of the while loop because they couldn't change color. It'd be an infinite loop unless you put in red, reprinting the message.

Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
On mine thats where the while loop starts.

What is the purpose of “count”? 
It goes up every loop to keep track of your attempts.

What is happening on line 22? 
It prints your attempts by putting count into the string and printing it.

Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit? No